So in our loop where we're running our gradient descent we need to add one line to add the line that
updates the values array after we've updated the parameters.
So going to save values on the school array it's going to be equal to end p dot append going to supply
three inputs to these parentheses.
When I supply the array itself and that's going to be the values on the score array I'm not going to
supply the arguments by keywords here just to stay on the same line and make this code a little bit
shorter than the values that we're going to append are gonna be our paradigms.
Yeah our parameter array.
But before we append them we're gonna have to reshape them because we can't append a one dimensional
array to a two dimensional array.
So when I reshape the parameters to be one row and two columns and finally I want to say axis is equal
to zero meaning I want to append my new values as a row and that's it.
That's the values array up dating every time the loop is running.
Now what we can do is we can scroll back up to where we've initially graphed our bowl shape.
I mean take this cell here.
I want to copy it and then down here for our 3D gradient descent.
I want to paste it below this cell and then I'm going to add a single line of code here.
I'm going to add my scatter plot.
So this is gonna be a X dots scatter and then I have to supply X values.
It's not gonna be x underscore for but it's gonna be the x values from our values array.
So it's gonna be values on a school array square brackets hold x values I can select with a colon then
a comma and then a zero because they're in the first column right.
So all the rows and the first column values and a score array.
Square brackets colon comma zero.
Now I've got to add the y values the y values in our array where in column two.
So we can take our values array square brackets.
Colon comma 1.
This is selecting all the values in column number two.
And now we have to provide the z values and we can do this by calculating our cost for all our values.
So it was f of and there would have been our x and y values but these are captured
and here except that this was column one and this is column zero so that's really it.
That's that's all we need for the scatter plot.
But that said in terms of design I think we should make the dots a bit larger.
Setting the signs equal to 50 and the color equal to red.
So I have it just like this and because the line is quite long.
I'll just hit enter here and bring it down like this.
So it's a bit more readable and we have the line wrapping over two lines instead okay.
Now all I have to do is run ourselves.
So when I run this one which will generate our values array and then I'm going to run this one here
which generates our plot with the values being plotted all the way down starting here and moving all
the way down to the bottom of this bowl and that's it we've plotted our gradient descent if you want
to you can obviously come back up here and pick a different number of iterations say you might only
want to see the first hundred or so and of course you can also start with the different starting points
to see what those are like.
If I run it with hundred iterations then I'm not going to be reaching the bottom of the bowl.
I'm going to be stopping a little bit short of it.
And if instead I only have 50 iterations
then you see that the first 50 because the slope is so flat appear the adjustments are very very small
and we only gradually make our way from the edge of the bowl here so you can play around with this and
see how our gradient descent behaves when you have different starting positions and different number
of iterations.
And finally I want to show you one last thing.
So it turns out that N.P. append isn't the only method that we can call to add our values to the bottom
of this values array.
There is another method called concatenate that we could use instead.
Let me show you how that works.
So that you've seen both and are familiar with both ways of adding data to an array or appending data
from two different arrays to each other.
I'm going to comet out this line of code here so that we don't do the operation twice because otherwise
we're gonna get some very funky results.
So again we're going to start with our values array and we're gonna set it equal to N.P. num pi don't
concatenate.
So the results from the CONCATENATE method are going to be stored in our values array.
Now the CONCATENATE method only really takes two inputs the first one is going gonna be the two arrays
that need to be added together that need to be strung together concatenated.
And the second again is the axis.
So if you are adding it as a row or as a column now the Axis again is going to be 0.
And for the arrays we're gonna provide that information as a tuple hence the parentheses here.
So if we wanted to accomplish exactly the same thing as the commented out line above we have to provide
our values array and then our parameter array but we'll have to reshape it all the same.
So reshape 1 2 and that's it.
This line of code here will accomplish exactly the same thing as above hits just two different functions.
You can call from num pi to run this gradient descent and then graph the results later.
And just to prove that I'm not making this up I'm going to change this.
I won't change the maximum number of iterations to say two hundred refresh the cell and then refresh
my graph as well.
Well there you go in our next lesson we're gonna be looking at how to run our gradient descent when
we have data points.
Yeah.
So this is the case where we've got a little bit more of a realistic cost function and we've got a bunch
of data points that we've collected and we're looking to calculate the best fit line.
I'll see you there.